Just a few months ago,
most of us had probably
never even heard the word “coronavirus.”
Now the words “coronavirus” and “COVID-19”
have become an all-too-familiar part
of our vocabulary.
With the world facing this pandemic,
everyday life for many of us
has been disrupted in ways
we might never have imagined.
And, sad to say, in just a short time,
this disease has taken
the lives of thousands.
We know you are concerned
about the well-being
of our brothers and sisters,
especially those living in lands
most directly affected by COVID-19.
Well, in this report, we’ll hear
from responsible brothers
in Korea, Italy, and the United States
to find out how our brothers and sisters
are doing and what steps are being taken
to assist those facing
this serious health crisis.
But before we hear from those brothers,
please let me share some thoughts with you.
The spread of this disease
is distressing, to be sure.
But we’re really not surprised
to see the world
in the grip of such pestilence, are we?
Jesus made it clear at Luke 21:11
that pestilence would be part
of the sign of the last days.
And in Revelation chapter 6,
the ride of the fourth horseman
includes mention of “deadly plague.”
So the events unfolding around us
are making it clearer than ever
that we’re living
in the final part of the last days
—undoubtedly, the final part
of the final part of the last days,
shortly before the last day of the last days.
But while the situation is serious,
as Jehovah’s people, we do not need to panic,
and Isaiah 30:15 tells us why.
Let’s read that together.
Isaiah 30:15:
“For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah,
“the Holy One of Israel, says:
“‘By returning to me and resting,
you will be saved;
“‘your strength will be
in keeping calm and showing trust.’”
Jehovah has always guided and supported
his people in times of distress.
So we have good reason
to do just as this verse tells us:
‘Keep calm and show trust’ in Jehovah.
And, in turn, Jehovah will give us strength.
As we’ll see in these reports
from around the world,
Jehovah has given us Bible principles
to help his people make wise decisions,
even in very difficult circumstances.
Let’s begin by speaking
with Brother Reino Kesk,
who serves in Korea.
Thank you, Reino, for joining us.
You’re welcome.
It’s a privilege.
But we ask, Brother Kesk,
how are the brothers in Korea
doing right now?
Although there is fear
throughout the country,
our brothers are in good spirits
and they really are endeavoring
to apply the good counsel at Isaiah 26:3
by fully leaning on Jehovah
and by trusting in him.
That’s very good to hear.
How has the coronavirus pandemic
affected the congregation meetings
and field ministry in your branch territory?
Well, we’ve had to stop holding meetings
at the Kingdom Halls
and also stop public witnessing.
At first, the brothers
were a little bit confused when this happened
because of the suddenness of everything.
But once they were informed
about the reasons for these steps
that had to be taken
and also when they understood the need
to apply Romans 13:1
(to cooperate with the
“superior authorities,”
or the government officials),
they understood immediately
and started to put into practice
the recommendations
and the suggestions that were given.
And they were so thankful
for these good suggestions,
recommendations, from the organization.
Well, those are big changes,
but no doubt the obedience and cooperation
of the brothers
has reflected favorably
on Jehovah’s name.
But what has helped the brothers
maintain their peace of mind
during this time?
Well, the friends are still keeping
a very good spiritual routine,
which is helping them,
and all of us, to stay calm
and to keep a proper perspective of matters.
As far as meetings are concerned,
the brothers are
either meeting together in small groups
or they’re using videoconferencing programs
so they can keep in touch
and enjoy the meetings that way
—and also JW Stream.
They’re also more flexible in their ministry.
They’re writing letters,
they’re texting their return visits,
they’re conducting
Bible studies over the telephone,
they’re calling their family and friends
to see how they are (to talk to them),
and they’re also calling
former Bible students
to see how they are
and are able to witness this way.
But one other thing too I might mention,
and that is, that the brothers
are really trying hard
to be balanced
in how much time they’re spending
watching news reports
and reading about them.
In fact, it’s important, of course,
to stay up-to-date
with things that are going on,
but our brothers have found
that constantly watching
news reports and updates
can also increase undue,
or unnecessary, anxiety.
For a certainty, we can imitate the faith
of our brothers
in Korea and their determination
to maintain
good spiritual routines during this time.
Thank you very much
for joining us for this report.
It’s been a pleasure.
Thank you.
Now we’ll go to Italy
with Brother Greg Cicciù.
Thank you for being here, Greg.
I’m glad to be here, Brother Lett.
Thank you.
We know that our brothers in Italy
are facing many of the same challenges
as our brothers in Korea and in recent weeks
have had to face
some especially difficult conditions,
including a nationwide lockdown.
Can you please tell us
how our brothers are doing in Italy?
Well, some of our brothers have contracted
COVID-19 and, tragically,
as of March 16, six of them have died.
The vast majority of our brothers are fine.
We’re praying for all of them,
especially those
who lost dear loved ones in death.
We’re very glad to hear
that most of the brothers are doing well,
but our hearts go out to those
who have lost their loved ones.
The news media has reported
on the many restrictions in Italy right now.
How have our brothers
been looking after each other
despite these restrictions?
Well, the brothers really miss
associating together in person but,
thanks to Jehovah’s blessing,
they’re doing well spiritually.
As Jesus said at John 13:34, 35
that love for one another
would identify his true disciples,
well, we’re seeing this love in action here.
True, government restrictions prevent us
from leaving home freely,
but the brothers regularly keep in touch
by phone or other electronic means.
The result is that many are reporting
that through this situation,
it’s actually drawing
our brothers closer together.
That’s very encouraging news.
Please tell us what the elders
are doing to shepherd the brothers.
In addition to providing
for physical needs where possible,
the elders are videoconferencing
with individuals
and entire field service groups
to share Scriptural encouragement
so that no one feels isolated.
Each one receives
emotional and spiritual support.
Many are expressing a renewed
appreciation for their dear shepherds.
For example, one sister wrote,
“I feel protected, like when a hen gathers
her chicks to protect them from a predator.”
Another brother said,
“I feel Jehovah’s love through my elders.”
Just as Isaiah 32:2 says,
our elders are really proving to be
“a hiding place from the wind,
[and] a place of concealment
from the rainstorm.”
How very encouraging!
We’re excited to hear how Jehovah
is getting you brothers
through this difficult time.
Our prayers will continue to be with you.
Thank you very much, Brother Lett.
Now we’ll go to the United States and speak
with Brother Harold Corkern,
who serves in Wallkill, New York.
Brother Corkern serves as a helper to the
Publishing Committee of the Governing Body
but is also a member
of the United States Branch Committee.
Thank you for being with us, Harold,
and we look forward to hearing from you.
Thank you for the opportunity, Brother Lett.
Why don’t you tell us how the brothers
at world headquarters and other
United States Bethel facilities are doing?
Well, there’s no question
that we’re going through
some challenging times
because we’ve never experienced
a health situation
like the scope of this one.
But on behalf of the Branch Committee,
we’re very happy to report
that the Bethel family is coping well.
And commendably, they have displayed
the “wisdom from above,”
being “ready to obey” as described
in the book of James 3:17.
And likewise, our brothers in the field
are quick to respond
to direction from the branch office.
That’s very good to hear.
Can you explain what practical steps
the brothers are taking
to avoid spreading the coronavirus?
We’re taking very seriously the guidelines
that we have received
from medical and government authorities
regarding steps that can be taken
to prevent the spread of the virus.
There are some basic reminders,
such as regular hand washing,
not touching the face,
avoiding hugs and handshakes,
and making sure to disinfect regularly
surfaces that are often touched.
And if someone is sick,
they should stay home.
So we have emphasized
these basic reminders
not only to our fellow workers here at Bethel
but also to those in the field.
Those are very practical reminders.
Even I’ve been greeting my brothers
with an elbow bump instead of a handshake.
Can you tell us what other measures
have been taken to keep everyone
as safe as possible?
Well, as a precaution for the Bethel family,
for our brothers in the field,
and for our neighbors,
no tours or guests are permitted
at our Bethel complexes at this time.
At the direction of the Governing Body,
no guests attended in person
at the recent Gilead graduation,
and the Bethel family was directed
to watch the program
from their personal rooms.
Now with growing concerns,
the most recent precaution that’s being taken
is that the Bethel family has been directed
to not leave their respective complexes
for any activity
—that would include shopping,
social gatherings, and meetings.
And we’d like to emphasize that this
is a precaution to protect the Bethel family,
because we do not have
an outbreak at this time,
but we’re being extra careful
to protect them.
And we will monitor this latest restriction
on a week-by-week basis
to determine
how much longer it should continue.
Now, as far as the field is concerned,
we have directed
that all large theocratic events
throughout the U.S. branch territory
should be canceled until May 17.
Many of the adjustments you’ve described
have no doubt been challenging.
How have the brothers responded?
We’re happy to report
that they have responded very well
to the precautions that have been provided.
And we’d also like to say, Brother Lett,
on behalf of the Branch Committee
to you dear brothers on the Governing Body:
Thank you very much
for your loving direction.
We can certainly sense
your loving concern
and your tender affection.
So thank you very much.
Well, thank you very much, Harold.
I’ll be sure to pass
that appreciation on to the other brothers.
We’ve looked to Jehovah for help
in making these decisions.
It’s encouraging to see
how willing and cooperative
our brothers and sisters have been.
Thank you very much,
Brother Corkern, for sharing this update.
You’re very welcome.
As you’ve seen from these reports,
with the situation changing day by day
—sometimes hour by hour—
many adjustments have had to be made.
Now, in some cases, the Governing Body
has provided specific direction
on how these adjustments
should be put into effect.
But many decisions have been left
to those who are most familiar
with local circumstances:
Branch Committee members,
circuit overseers, and congregation elders.
To you faithful spirit-appointed men
serving in these capacities,
we’d like to say this: We trust you,
and we are confident
that you’ll prayerfully evaluate the facts
and local circumstances
and follow the direction
of the “superior authorities.”
And we know that you’ll do
all within your power
to stay in touch with the congregations.
You will do so on a regular basis
by phone or videoconference as necessary.
We’re also confident that Jehovah’s spirit
will guide you and give you
the mature judgment
needed at this time
to apply Bible principles properly
and to provide clear direction.
As for the rest of us,
whether the direction we receive comes
from the Governing Body, the branch,
our circuit overseer, or the elders,
we want to follow that direction closely.
It can serve as a protection now and, really,
if we think about it,
it’s good practice as we head
into even more turbulent times ahead.
Before we conclude,
we’d like to share a few thoughts
about the upcoming Memorial
of the death of Jesus Christ on April 7.
There’s no virus or pandemic in the world
that can dampen our appreciation
for what Jehovah and Jesus have done for us
or weaken our determination
to observe the Lord’s Evening Meal.
Our gathering to commemorate
that important event
is more than a tradition;
it’s a command
recorded at Luke 22:19.
Let’s read that together.
Luke 22:19:
“Also, he [Jesus] took a loaf,
“gave thanks, broke it, and gave it to them,
“saying: ‘This means my body,
“‘which is to be given in your behalf.
Keep doing this in remembrance of me.’”
So will we ‘keep doing this
in remembrance of Jesus,’ as he commanded?
Absolutely.
But how we do so may vary
depending on our local circumstances.
If it’s possible in your area,
we encourage you
to meet with your congregation.
You can be sure that the elders
will take practical measures
for the benefit of all those attending.
Of course, in some areas,
local circumstances created by COVID-19
may prevent you
from meeting as a congregation.
In that case, you may receive direction
from your elders to meet in smaller groups;
to use videoconferencing,
like Skype® or Zoom;
or if none of those options are possible,
to watch the program on jw.org®.
How thankful we are to Jehovah
that he’s equipped us
to be able to “drink the milk of nations”
as mentioned at Isaiah 60:16,
which includes the wise use of technology!
Regardless of the specific
arrangements involved,
we all want to prepare our hearts
and do whatever is necessary
to obey Jesus’ command
to celebrate the Lord’s Evening Meal.
Just think for a moment
about Jesus’ sacrifice
and what it means,
especially in the light
of this global health crisis.
By means of the ransom,
Jehovah has made provision
to completely eliminate problems
such as pestilence from the earth
—not just this one viral pandemic
but all sickness and death.
Admittedly, the events we see around us
are now creating
“times hard to deal with,”
just as the Bible foretold.
But these events also remind us
of how close we are to seeing
a complete solution
to all these problems forever.
We want you to know that the Governing Body
loves you deeply
and will keep you in our prayers.
Our brothers in the United States, Italy,
and Korea send their warm love and greetings.
This is JW Broadcasting®
from the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.